CANADA
Proposal for amendments to Appendices I and II
Supporting statement
1. Inclusion of all Felis yagouaroundi, Felis pardalis, Felis wiedii and
Fells tigrina in Appendix I
a) the trade in skins of all these species, excepting Felis yagouaroundi,
is extremely heavy;
b) it is visually impossible to identify one subspecies from another and
thus importing States are unable to apply the Convention correctly;
c) the trade in illegal skins is obviously encouraged by the confusion
with identification problems;
d) Canada, because of the fur industry, is probably the largest importer
of spotted cat skins in the world today, and is faced with an almost
impossible task of identification ofskins, or parts of skins, to a
subspecies level.
2. Inclusion of Fells geoffroyi in Appendix I
a) skins of this species are being heavily traded between South America
(mainly Paraguay) and Canada and other nations. Over the last few
years, one Canadian importer has imported over 30,000 Geoffroy’s cat
skins, including over 10,000 skins in three shipments between May and
October 1975. Similar shipments are frequently received by other Canadian
furriers either direct from South America or from nations in Europe;
b) if trade in this species is permitted, unscrupulous dealers are apt to
include skins of F. wiedii and F. tigrina with F. geoffroy~;
c) the number of skins being imported into Canada is probably only a small
part of the trade in skins of this species, and it is doubtful if any
species can sustain such a heavy take;
a) with severe restrictions being placed on other species of spotted cats,
dealers will turn to similar species not included in Convention appendices.
3. Inclusion of Loxodonta africana in Appendix I
a) hunting of this species has either been prohibited or is very strictly
regulated in the majority of African States in which the species occurs;
b) the majority of elephant tusk carvings that are sold throughout the world
are produced in the Far East (Hong Kong, Singapore, etc.). Once carved,
it is, for practical purposes, impossible to distinguish between small
carvings made from African elephant ivory (Loxodonta africana) and Indian
elephant ivory (Elephas maximus). Thus controls over any illegal trade in
Indian elephant ivory ~re nonexistent.
220
